1

Welcome to the talk

2

Intros of everyone

3

Here's a list of all the topics we're covering today - obviously we're not going to go into too much depth with all of them . This is more to give you a taste of the angular way of thinking and what angular has to offer

Hopefully some of it sticks, and you'll start to love angular the way we do

4

What is angular? Angular is a Javascript framework for creating great web applications that are really well structured & organized

It has a pretty unique approach for constructing these apps - 

5

Here are some of the ways it's unique - obviously there are a lot of things different about it, these are just a few of the ones that we feel are important

It extends the HTML vocabularly so that you are creating your own HTML elements that have custom functionality

Unlike other Javascript frameworks, angular reduces the amount of DOM manipulation so that you can focus on your business logic

And finally, beause of the way you structure your applications, your code is way more testable - and you're going to find yourself writing plenty of unit tests for your Javascript app

6

So let's start with reducing DOM manipulation .. And to show you how it does, we'll first describe how it's done in other frameworks

You've probably seen MVC - it's a pretty standard approach - you have a model, and you have a view. The glue in between the two is the controller

7

Typically, the controller is the bit that listens on UI events, and responds to them by updating the UI using jQuery, or just directly manipulating the DOM. And for good measure, they also deal with the business logic. It can get pretty messy pretty quickly

8

In angular, the controllers have a more purpose driven life. And it's a pretty simple purpose - they just create and update the view model

What's the view model?

9


The view-model is a simpler model that's tailor fit to be visualized by a view. In MVVM then, the contorller's job is to take the model and simplify it into this simpler view model. You can see then in angular, the controller is much smaller

10

So let's look at what the view model looks like:

In angular, the view model is called the Scope, and it's just a simple Javascript object

Here we're adding a couple of bits of data to the scope

This is what an angular controller would do -

And in fact, that's all you would expect to see in an angular controller - no dom manipulation, no event handling, just setting up and managing the scope, aka the view model

11

And now lets see how to bind the view model to the view

12

And let's see it live

Notice there are no event handlers, there's no dom manipulation - it's all done declaratively

There's one part of this that we haven't covered yet and that's the ng-model

What's ng-model? it's a directive

13

Let's talk about directives

Directives are a way to teach HTML new tricks - it's a way to extend the HTML vocabularly by introducing new elements, or attributes

We'll talk aout how to add your own directives later but for now, we'll show you a few built-in directives that angular provides

ng-model binds the value of an input field - such as a text field - to the 

ng-show shows or hides the element based on the value that the expression specified inside the ng-show attribute evaluates to

ng-repeat treats the element on which it is declared on as a template, and clones that element once per each item in the list which you are repeating on

14

Let's take a look at those directives working live

15

Hopefully with bindings and directives, you've started to see one of the philosophical beliefs in angular: Declarative is better than imperative for constructing UIs

If you start with the belief that HTML is a great declartive language for static documents, Angular adds enough so that HTML becomes a great declarative language for dynamic web applications


16


So imagine being able to do something lik this:


You declare a grid, and it creates all the DOM necessary for showing a grid. It sets up all the necessary glue so that the data model specified here is bound to the grid that is visualized

You can re-use this grid anywhere you need a grid

It's more readable, easier to understand and more elegant

With angular, these are directives

But we just wanted to mention that this isn't just about angular - this approach to create re-usable dynaimc web components using HTML's declarative style is probably going to be the future

At least if you are to believe a few at Google who are working on the next generation of web frameworks


Polymer

17

We're going to switch gears a bit and talk about how Angular helps you organize your application a bit better - we're going to talk about dependency injection and modules

We talked about what an angular controller does, but we never showed how one looks when we create it:

Let's take a look at that:

18

Here is an example of a controller called 'PresentationController'. Note that we add it to the module by calling module.controller on it. We give the controller a name, and then we declare some things that the controller needs. Here, the controller needs the $scope it is working with, and it needs a service

So that's a controller - the same pattern is used for other stuff in angular - we talked about directives, so here's an example with directives:

19

Here is a directive called 'demoTicker'. Again note that you call module.directive on it - you give it a name, and the same as with controllers, you list the dependencies that you need in the directive

This isn't a complete example on directives - we're going to go through more detail later

20

Just one more example - this time we're looking at how to declare a constant - here is pi

21

There are two main concepts to get out of these examples - 

first is Dependency Injection

Notice that in all the previous examples - the functions just declare that they need stuff - the controller needs $scope, and service, the directive needed $routeParams - 

The angular framework will take care of finding the dependencies and wiring them together

22

The second main concept is that of modules - it's a nice way to organize your application

It means that you can group together logical components that go together nicely.

Modules have dependencies

Finally, modules are good for testing - you can swap in a module with mocked components for a real one

23

Let's revisit directives a bit more now

24

Traverse parsed HTML, and find directives, and call $compile

25

The compile function modifies the DOM - in a lot of cases, this can be as simple as replacing a single element with a template of content

26

The linking function sets up bindings between the DOM and the scope

27

Notice we are going back to declaring a directive - we start by giving the directive a name, and specifying a function - this function could have declared dependencies but we don't

The function is actually a factory function and returns an object describing the directive

Notice the restrict here says A - that means the directive can be used as an attribute .. if it had E, the directive could be used as an element

Each instance of a directive can have its own scope associated with it - this is determined by the scope defined here

Here, the scope has a few properties which get values defined on the element on which the directive is declared
28

The easiest way to define the DOM content of a directive is to use a template - like we do here - note we can use directives within the template as well


29


Finally, to manage the scope of a directive, a directive can have its own controller

30

Testing your angular application is easier than thought and makes you aware of potential code failures.

Angular comes with support for unit and e2e testing. e2e stands for end2end and is used for testing business logic.

Jasmine, a javascript testing framework, can be used for unit testing. With Jasmine you can test the behaviour of your controllers, services, filters & directives.

31

Angular is written with testability in mind, but it's up to the developer to do the right thing.

Separation of code is important for testability, you don't want to end up with one method handling everything.

Testing will force you to break-up code to be single purposed, so code behaviour can be tested separately.

32

Some functions you want to test might rely on service calls or other slow dependencies.

To resolve that, you can mock dependencies through DI to avoid latency.

You should only test how YOUR function works with a dependency not test the dependency itself.

example: XHR object mock

33

Here we have a sample todo app written with angular.

We are going to have a closer look into the addTodo function for the todoController.

34

applications grow in size and complexity, it gets very unrealistic and unreliable to test business logic manually.

The angular team built an angular scenario runner, which simulates user interactions, so selenium is not necessary.

tests describe how your application should behave, given a certain interaction in a specific state.

35

Back to the todo example, let's have a look what an e2e test could look like.

Here we are testing on a higher level basis, views are rendered and we test in terms of DOM manipulation.

These tests can be opened in any browser to check cross-browser compatibility

36

Ok, how to use animations in angular. For people coming from a jQuery background might have a hart time adapting.

Because of bindings and little code (or none) for DOM manipulation, where do I put my animation code?

Wouldn't it be nice to define animations on event basis?

The angular team introduced a new directive handling this concern, the ng-animate directive

37

With ng-animate you can define animations with several different directives, ng-repeat, ng-view, ng-show, ng-hide, etc

These animations can be defined in pure CSS3 or in Javascript code, even jQuery if needed.

38

In this example we use CSS to define our animation.

the prefix block is the name of the animation, the suffix -enter and -leave define the action of the animation.
with -active you define properties on how it should end (end state)

Let' have a look what that looks like in action

39

So this works all through CSS3 transitions and angular will correctly add and remove the css classes in the right time.

The nice thing is all your animation handling is outside your JS code, which also means your code should be even more testable.

everything is happening through bindings and you have to worry less about updating your view.

40

For people who prefer using jQuery or other JS UI based libraries can do so too. Not every browser can handle CSS3

In this example we define an animation module and use the animation method to do what we did in CSS, just through Javascript

41

ng-animate can be used on any element in combination with ng-show, ng-hide, ng-repeat, and more.

There will be support to introduce new events like -enter and -leave with your own directives.

This is very simple and awesome!
